---
title: "About"
description: "Triple Nickel raise premium NON-GMO pork from a family farm"
date: "2019-02-28"
aliases: ["about-us", "about-triplenickel", "contact"]
author: "Triple Nickel"
---

**Mission Statement:** We are a small family farm specializing in Premium Pork, while also offering seasonal crops, limited Black Angus Beef, and Poultry products. We are completely off grid and thriving. Our main goal is to remain a self sustainable farm while providing our community with the best harvest possible.
\
\
A little about us. We do not come from a farming background but Jason has done very well in the backyard gardening department and we have had backyard chickens for many years. Being successful with chickens for eggs, it was only natural to try raising our own meat birds. Moving on from chickens, we started raising hogs with friends just for personal use. We never intended to get into farming but the opportunity presented itself and we jumped on it. In February 2019 we purchased 6 pigs from a local farmer In Ridgefield, Washington, to raise for ourselves and for a few friends and family, as we had been doing for several years prior. We were initially going to grow them on a friends land but we were blessed in a different way. Our long time friend sold us a piece of property adjacent to his land that gave us the space for our start up! We moved the little piggys from our friends land to our new and very, very undeveloped piece of property. We quickly put up fencing and got to work building and piecing things together to make it a habitable place to be, not only for our piglets but also for us. After getting settled, we decided to purchase a few more piglets from the Ridgefield farmer because of the quality of piglets. We learned that they came from a meat factory in the East that had shut down due to COVID-19, so we knew they would be great for us. In total we purchased 10 pigs to raise that year. A tragedy happened at the beginning and a couple of piglets didn’t make it but we did not let that stop us! We still had 8 pigs and 5 we were growing for our friends and family. Jason and I discussed the option of maybe doing this for the long haul and in the end, decided to keep the 3 best looking females to try our hand at breeding with AI (artificial insemination). This proved to be effective with one pig (Queen B) another pig turned out to be sterile right away so she was sold off within the first year. We then had just Bubbles and Queen B. Queen B decided to birth for us in April of 2021 and we kept her daughters to add to our growing farm. These 3 beautiful sows are birthing for us this month and we couldn’t be more thrilled about it!
\
\
In April of 2021, after doing much research (Jason is the best at this), we decided to purchase a boar (Hamilton), to see if we could breed Bubbles that way since the AI wasn’t taking. Jason got in touch with Jeremy Mellick, a pig breeder out of Maple Valley, Wa and began talks of genetics and heritage with him. Jeremy has been in the business for many years and has done all the hard heritage/genetic work for us. He has proved to be a valuable resource for us (not sure if he realizes that or not). After a long consideration, we decided to pull the trigger and purchase his pigs as a breeding package, Hamilton and our two Hampshire/Duroc females (Sophia and Dorothy). So far, Sophia had done fantastic as you can tell on our “News” page. Dorothy has yet to get pregnant but its not from lack of trying, we fear that she is also sterile. Jeremy is helping us figure this out as this is being typed. We are extremely happy with the breeds he has recommended and are grateful for his expertise (YouTube has also been very helpful).
\
\
We have done very well with what we have and as long as the pigs are happy and warm, all is well in the world. I do have to say that it is very hard to be separated all the time from one another but this dream is bigger than us and as soon as we are able, we will be at the farm together permanently. As of right now, we are actually residing in two different places. We purchased our home in mid-2018 so our children could have a place to grow up. Little did we know that our dream was right around the corner ready to accidentally line up with the stars and fall into our laps. Our dream has always been to live off grid and on our own devices and Jason is doing just that. I run the business side of things from our home and he lives in our 5th wheel out on the farm raising the pigs off grid. He uses solar to run the refrigerator and to charge his batteries. He has built the farm from the ground up. There are no permanent utilities on site as of yet but this is just the beginning!
\
\
Our goal to take this as far as possible, expand on it and leave a legacy for our children and their children. This farm has been a huge blessing for us and we will continue to be eternally grateful. The lord works in mysterious ways and he truly gave us a blessing.
